h2. Debugger

version: _v0.1.3_ ^(beta)^ 

* Gives you a safe rapid prototyping environment  
* Helps you avoid misuse of Blueprint classes 

Guaranteed to work in the following browsers... 
* Firefox 1.0+
* Opera 7.0+
* Konquerer 3.4+
* Safari 1.2+
...and won't work in IE due to missing support for +outline+


----------------------------------------------------------------
h3. Credits

_author:_ Created by Franz Josef Kaiser "say hello code!":http://say-hello-code.com


----------------------------------------------------------------
h3. Usage

* Make a copy of debug.html and give it a unique name for your test (for example, debug-test1.html)
* Adjust the <head> of this debug environment page to your needs:
* Uncomment the plugins you want to use in your page.
** _optional_ only needed for the mailing list: describe your goals, trials & errors in the head container.
* Add your basic html structure (div, h1-h6, p, span, a).
* Add some "lorem ipsum" dummy text and sample IMGs to your html (search for lorem ipsum, there are lots of resources). 
* Add your Blueprint classes to the structure.
* Uncomment the css/html debugger stylesheet in the head.
* Open the sample in your browser.
** _optional_ if you see elements outlined, you've forgotten declarations or added bad classes. In this case take a look at the head of the debugger plugin to check color codes & find out what exactly went wrong (it's easy).
* Basic structure: _*done*_
* Now you can add your own styles in a separate stylesheet to the <head> section and develop further. 


----------------------------------------------------------------
h4. Changelog

_v0.1 (alpha)_ 
* first version
** a basic html page structure
** debugger offers outlining of classical misstakes
 
_v0.1 (beta)_
* debugger now offers help for missing declarations
** dev page reworked to split between description & content

_v01.1 (beta)_
* bugfix: colborder & border were missing dot in front of class

_v01.2 (beta)_
* switched to textile mark-up file for readme to inherit bp core

_v01.2.1 (beta)_
* tried to fix textile mark-up for readme

_v01.3 (beta)_
* switched pathes for all style-links in the head of blueprint.html to work out of the box from the debug plugin directory.
